my to head to Rideau cottage for Prime
Minister Justin Trudeau's daily briefing
on the corona virus pandemic today he's
expected to pick up on a positive report
from Canada's top doctor dr. Teresa Tam
says that after weeks of shutdowns and
physical distancing the Cova 19 curve in
this country is flattening she said that
in a statement yesterday that news comes
as more provinces start phasing in their
plans to reopen their respective
economies we're also hearing today that
the Prime Minister will announce funding
to expand online access to health
services that of course is key for the
millions of Canadians who are following
orders to stay at home I want to bring
in my colleague David Cochran who joins
us here in Ottawa David we're also
expecting some news or not news but
rather a reiteration of what the feds
had promised to do around the Canada
Child Benefit boosting that probably
expecting a lot of questions around a
story about testing that's coming from
the low journals in Montreal this
Spartan bioscience it's a very quick
test that was approved a couple of weeks
ago by Health Canada looks like it's
running into some problems yeah I'd say
most people really heard about the
Spartan test cube in Spartan bioscience
back when they announced the federal
government announced a new industrial
policy in Canada to get domestic
companies ramping up and reorienting to
focus on fighting kovat 19 this was is
the Ottawa technology company that had
developed this rapid test kit that has
been bought widely or is going to be
bought widely by governments like
Ontario and Quebec it was sent out for
clinical testing there's some problems
we've got a statement from Health Canada
if we can show it to you it says in
light of the clinical results Health
Canada has placed conditions on the
companies authorization that Spartan
bioscience to restrict the use of the
product to research use only until
adequate evidence of clinical
performance can be provided the Spartan
product can continue to be used for
research purposes only now this is
important too because I think a lot of
people got the sense that these rapid
testing kits we're gonna be widely
distributed and widely used to help
accelerate not only the the rate at
which the country can test but the rate
at which we can get those test results
it was apparently a conditional approval
and expedited approval to allow it to be
used with the condition that all of its
results be examined by the natural bike
microbiology lab in Winnipeg to verify
that the test results were accurate and
a
currently the the verification of the
results has led to this statement from
Health Canada what I'm told by
government officials is that there's
some issues with the swabs either in the
way they collect the sample or in the
way that they are analyzed once inside
the kit the kit itself is seen to be
sound but they need to fine tune what's
going on before it can be widely used so
that's the statement from Health Canada
we also have a statement from Spartan
the company here's what they said
Spartan was first advised on May 1st by
Health Canada of the National okay we're
gonna pick it up later since Spartan
will be voluntary recalling its Cova 19
product and performing additional
clinical studies to assess the sampling
method and proprietary swab now before
that paragraph there the company said it
was advised on May 1st by Health Canada
that the biology lab had concerns
regarding the the the efficacy of the
perkupp iottery swab for spartans Cova
19 testing product the same report
indicated no concerns regarding the
accuracy and analytical performance of
spartans test reagents and portable DNA
analyzer device now currently they've
shipped 5500 tests nationally for
validation to provincial and federal
government health agencies and they say
they'll be working as quickly as
possible to address the concerns and
bring the test to market so i was
speaking to a senior health official who
told me that this is a setback but not
an unsolvable one they believe that the
issues identified with the spartan test
kit can be fixed and can be adapted and
it will be able to be put into wide use
at a certain point once it clears this
regulatory hurdle Vashi
and just to put some jump-off on what
you're saying and if you're just joining
us now you'll see there Rideau cottage
we are awaiting the prime minister in
about ten minutes time for his daily
briefing on the kovat 19 pandemic these
tests I remember we had the CEO on and
we interviewed him and it's a cube
basically you stick the the swab in
there in it and it gives you your
results very quickly and at the time I
think it was a few weeks ago that
initially got that conditional approval
dr. Tam had said that at the federal
level the government is trying to secure
a supply of 40,000 of those devices per
month Ontario had ordered nearly 1
million testing kits and Alberta's
contract I believe at the time was for a
hundred thousand kits and the CEO at the
time had said he was going to supply
this the domestic market and there were
there were demands you know for the
private sector and other countries as
well for it but at that time he thought
they could even ramp up to I think it
was something like a
thousand tests a week so it'll be
interesting to see what effect this has
on that kind of a timeline yeah and this
speaks to the challenge there's been a
lot of political pressure for example at
Health Canada to approve test more
quickly and get them out on the market
more quickly we've seen other
governments in other countries move very
quickly to do things like serological
testing and antibody testing and finding
out that science is a hard thing to rush
and you know the approvals you can speed
them up you can buy it you can get it
into the market but until the the
testing is refined to the point that
you're not getting false positives and
false negatives isn't either false hope
or are false indicators of where things
are in dealing with the disease it
becomes a risk Spartan looked very
promising early it has proved not to be
where they need it to be and is going
back in basically was taken out for a
test drive
bashy but it needs some modifications
before you can you can buy the thing and
take it home with you so that's where it
is right now the biology lab found some
issues with it
it does slow the scaling up of testing
capacity in the country the hope is that
it's only a temporary delay more of a
pause rather than a full-blown stop okay
I'll leave it there with you for a
second David and we'll be checking in
with you I know you'll be with us
through the Prime Minister's remarks but
on the issue of testing capacity it is
extremely important and significant
towards the process of reopening economy
some provinces are starting to relax
restrictions and allow certain
businesses to reopen to a certain degree
Nova Scotia is one of them for more on
this I'm joined by premier at Stephen
McNeil from Upper Granville Nova Scotia
hi premier McNeil good to see you again
good to see you good afternoon premier I
wanted to start off on the question of
reopening the economy because last week
when we spoke you you said that the
province wasn't there yet you weren't
prepared at this point to start relaxing
you know restrictions in a big way you
did however open municipal and
provincial parks this weekend and has a
lot to do with an issue the Prime
Minister is going to talk about and I
know that you're concerned about given
the events of the past few weeks and
that's mental health tell me a bit about
why you made that decision
well our province has been hit with a
tremendous amount of death over the last
period of time as you know we have 37
Scotians who passed away from Kovac we
had the unthinkable tragedy that took
place in Colchester County and of course
this week we lost six members of the
Canadian Armed Forces now helicopter
crash all of whom were part of our Noma
Scotia family and self-isolation was
taking its toll and we felt that it was
in the best interest of all of us to
find some way to get outdoors find some
level of recreation we opened up sport
fishing Drive golf driving ranges but we
are not through this through the
pandemic Act but it was a balance for us
and it really was trying to work towards
ensuring that we tried to protect the
Mental Health oceans I know that
physical distancing practices or
measures remain in place despite opening
the parks have you seen any issues with
any of that or any reports of issues or
are people people taking advantage of it
and staying safe I haven't heard of any
issues this weekend what I have seen is
has been positive I think Nova Scotians
recognize this is their opportunity to
continue to move out of this pandemic in
their restrictions but we made it very
clear dr. strong and I that if there
were complications if we saw that the
virus started to pick up again that we
would put restrictions back on on our
province what about relaxing other
restrictions again when we spoke last
week you were you said you weren't there
yet what is your assessment of where
things stand right now so part of what
we did on Friday I've asked the Minister
of Health I'm the deputy minister to
work with our partners at health to look
at de surgery or short-stay surgeries
that potentially could take place in our
healthcare system and what would that
look like to begin to reopen that a
doctor starting now we'll work with
associations like the Restaurant
Association cosmetology Association
other professional organizations who
were in the service industry how can we
begin to open up our particular sectors
by following the new the new norm the
public health protocols that will be in
place do you feel premier or based on
the information you're getting from
public health officials do you feel that
nova scotia is on the other end of the
peak well we have a
most 63% of our cases that we have of
the 971 have actually have gone through
this now or people are well again we're
seeing a trend but obviously we have a
nursing home the largest nursing home
east of Montreal that we have issues in
that we're working very hard we've sent
in health care teams it's infection
control people more cleaning staff try
to continue to make sure that we pull
that virus isolate that virus in that
home and then eradicate it we know that
testing capacity as I was discussing
with my colleague David Cochrane is so
key to every province being able to
loosen those restrictions or reopen
aspects of their economies has Nova de
Nova Scotia have any of those Spartan
bioscience tests on order not that I
know of they might be probably but we
were probably part of a national
procurement piece where we would have
identified a few of them but they're not
part of our our testing we've ramped up
testing capacity in our province
we went pretty early on moving away from
just strictly travel to where we went
out into community to aggressively try
to isolate the virus we saw pockets
where we had seen communities spread
where we were able to put in teams to go
in and help with that infection control
type setting and as I just said a few
minutes ago this nursing home as well as
one that we've done the same thing by
providing supports so we have we ramped
up our testing capacity was critical for
us we had we've done a size 1500 a day
and so this has been our kind of our
strategy to deal with it making sure
that where the virus is and it is really
through the testing to make that happen
there has continued will continue by the
way as we start opening up our economy
we'll continue with that testing process
as far as nursing homes go there's also
a big discussion about the pay the
people people in those homes receive or
other essential health care workers I
know that in your discussions with the
Prime Minister and other premiers
discussions with the Prime Minister that
issue is a live one that the federal
government has said that they're going
to offer top-ups for those essential
workers but you were hoping for some
more Fleck
ability because many of them already
make the amount of money that would sort
of bring them out of qualifying for the
top-up the feds are pledging where do
you talk stand on that were you able to
get any of that flexibility secured yeah
we're still working with the national
government with the federal government
when it comes to making sure that the
Cova 19 essential service top-up impacts
health care workers are when we talk
about the central component while there
are many parts of our economy that are
working and working diligently health
care workers are the ones who are going
in to these homes or quite frankly or
hospitals and dealing with those who are
suffering from Kove at 19 we wanted to
make sure that if there's going to be an
essential service top-up that it
actually impacted our health care teams
and do you have a pledge as I should say
to our viewers we have a screen up on
ahead of them showing that we're waiting
any minute now for the prime minister do
you have any kind of commitment from the
prime minister to supply that kind of
flexibility to come up with a top-up
that will work for your province we've
been working with the national
government and it's my hope that we'll
have a positive result before I let you
go premier one more question when it
comes to federal provincial issues and
on a separate separate issue but I do
imagine the Prime Minister will get
questions about the band that his
government introduced on Friday for
assault weapons we've heard from some
premiers Premier of Ontario Doug Ford
the premier of Alberta Jason Kenney who
feel that it unduly sort of takes guns
away I'm paraphrasing from their
perspective from law-abiding gun owners
your province has obviously just been
through a horrific incident involving a
gunman what is your position on the band
that was introduced do you support it
well first of all I don't know the
weapons that were used by the gunmen
here in our province two weeks ago I
could tell you historically it makes no
sense in my view that individual gun
owners are deeded an assault weapon
those are obviously weapons that were
used for conflicts of war but it makes
absolutely no sense
that an ordinary Canadian would require
an assault weapon in that doesn't mean I
live in a rural part of Nova Scotia they
called me in a rural community where
there's lots of hunting one in this
province the law-abiding citizens can
actually own guns in this country and in
this province but assault weapons really
absolutely make no sense and to me the
argument that you're taking rights away
from law-abiding gun owners just doesn't
hold water when it comes to an assault
weapon so you're supportive of what the
federal government did on Friday I've
been a long supporter of dealing with
assault weapons in this country quite
frankly we see too much carnage around
the world in or by by by impacting
innocent citizens there's no reason that
anyone who was not in a position of
protecting citizens through whether it's
the Canadian Armed Forces or a lot of
law enforcement in this country requires
an assault weapon in my view okay I'll
leave it there premier McNeil thank you
very much for making time for us on this
Sunday I really appreciate it thanks so
much Premier Stephen McNeil Nova
Scotia's premiere in Upper Granville in
that province I'm gonna swing back to
David Cochrane my colleague here in
Ottawa as we await any minute now the
prime minister coming out of Rideau
cottage to address reporters that issue
around what the federal government
announced Friday obviously separate from
kovat 19 but definitely one that is
garnering a lot of discussion and
reaction from various provinces it's the
only really non Cova 19 related
announcement that the gut of the federal
government has made in the past six
weeks yeah they've been a few things
have had to deal with but really the 11
o'clock eastern 11:15 Eastern update
every day has been about the response to
kovin 19 and it was interesting Bashi
that a lot of the partisanship had
largely been set aside not necessarily
between the Liberals and the
Conservatives over the last several
weeks but certainly between the federal
government and the provincial government
but this move on the firearm regulations
and the restrictions did bring some of
that back out we've seen some of that
seeping back into the national
conversation right with Doug Ford and
and Jason Kennedy being critical of
what's happened with the gun regulations
we've seen Brian Pallister in Manitoba
sort of slamming the Canadian emergency
response benefit as a program that is
paying people to stay home and not work
and limiting them reopening the economy
so he's just reopened the door area so
I'll cut you off there and we'll head
over to Rideau cottage let's take a
listen in live to the prime minister
recognizing today marks the 75th
anniversary of the Battle of the
Atlantic as we remember the sailors
soldiers and pilots who helped turn the
tide of the Second World War we honor
all our veterans who stepped forward so
we may live in peace we think of the
brave men and women who serve today and
we mourn the six heroes we lost just
last week to their loved ones to those
serving on HMCS Fredericton and to all
CAF members I wanted one again once
again offer my deepest condolences to
Canadians over the last four months
Canada has faced challenge and
heartbreak on a scale we could never
have expected so if you're feeling
overwhelmed that's understandable if you
need support that's okay in April we
launched wellness together Canada a
website where you can find people to
talk to if you're in crisis and today
we're taking another step forward our
government is investing over 240 million
dollars to bring health care online
we're expanding existing online tools
creating new virtual platforms for
mental health and for primary care let
me start with a new platform for mental
health whether you're looking for
strategies to manage stress or support
from a professional this will be a
resource for you and if you're part of a
marginalized community and you need
specialized tools well there'll be
specific help for you as well if we can
provide mental health support online
there's no reason we can't leverage
technology in other areas of health care
to this 240 million dollar investment
will also include funding for virtual
care for times when you don't need to
see a doctor in person just take
videoconferencing by helping doctors run
appointments online you can stay safe at
home while getting care and our
hospitals can stay focused on those who
need it most
if we can use apps to order dinner and
video chats to stay in touch with family
we can use Ning technology to keep each
other healthy or jobs we in online can
able us to broaden access to services
and provide more resources to Canadians
these funds will be used to create an
online platform that will provide a
whole range of services related to
mental health
it is also money that will make it
possible to provide a broader range of
virtual care for times when you don't
need to see a doctor in person by
providing online care we will be
reaching more people and reducing the
pressure on our healthcare system and
since we are all practicing physical
distancing these days this is the right
time to invest in these solutions to
beat kovat 19 we have to think outside
the box when Canadian researchers have a
solid lead we need to make sure they can
follow it up that's exactly what we've
been doing over the last two months and
we're starting to see real results today
I can announce that we're investing over
a hundred and seventy five million
dollars to support the Canadian company
absol ara for their very promising kovat
19 research they've identified
antibodies that could be used in drugs
to treat this virus this new funding
will help them continue their vital work
and will support human tries beginning
as early as July but until we have
effective treatments or better yet a
vaccine
we still need a reliable supply of
everything from masks to ventilators so
later today
Minister Anand will announce the details
of a new kovat 19 supply council this
council will be tasked with finding
innovative solutions to ensure our
country continues to have the vital
supplies necessary to keep Canadians
safe lvova steal food is
investing 75 million dollars to support
to research that is very promising being
carried out by AB seller ah a Canadian
company that company is currently trying
to identify antibodies that could be
used in the production of medicines to
treat the virus our investment will
allow the company to continue that
research and at the same time will
support clinical trials that could begin
as early as July later today minister
anand will provide additional details
regarding the new kovat 19 supply
council this council will have as its
mandate to find innovative solutions to
ensure that we always have the supplies
we need such as masks and hand
disinfectants I want to end today as I
do most Sundays talking to families to
parents I know this is a tough time
right now to be raising kits right now
you should be able to folk you should be
able to focus on keeping your family
safe not about worrying about the bills
so this may you'll get more help through
the Canada Child Benefit when you
receive this month's payment you'll see
an extra 300 dollars per child for
families with two kids that means an
extra $600 for three kids and extra $900
and so on this is money for whatever you
need whether it's online tutoring or
groceries and to all the kids out there
I know things are hard for you too I
know you miss your friends and it's not
always easy to do your schoolwork online
but this isn't going to last forever
so keep planning fun things to do with
your friends once this is over keep up
on your homework and remember we're
gonna get through this together
so thanks for all your help around the
house with your parents and then
sticking together through this difficult
time she was at DARPA huh oh man if
you're a parent we are going to be
putting more money in your pockets this
month you will see when your canada
child
that comes in in a couple of weeks that
you will be receiving an additional 300
dollars per child
that means $600 more for two children
$900 more for three children and so on
to meet your needs whether it is for
online work or groceries it's hard these
days for families so we are helping
parents to make things easier for them
but I know it's also very hard for
children you miss your friends and you
want to be outside or go to the park I
know that you're anxious to see all of
this and the good news is that we have
come a long way in recent weeks but we
must continue I know it will be
difficult but if we all continue to help
out around the house and remain positive
we will get through this if everyone
continues to do their part we will make
it thank you thank you so Lina did that
has Kennedy hundred and forty million
dollars since it's about health care
will you be transferring that money to
other provinces and also talking we
heard about evidence regarding the virus
and the u.s. secretary mentioned this
this morning about that well that money
is for online care and mental health
services that will be available at
various levels and there will be money
for the provinces as well with respect
to how and where this virus began I know
it's interesting to find that out but
our concern is really to ensure that we
can help people know there will continue
to be questions us and we will continue
to look for answers but right now our
priority in the coming
we must be to do everything we can to
protect Canadians now should I
understand that you did not see that
evidence that the Americans have been
talking about well there are a number of
theories out there and we've heard
concerns and hypotheses as to how all of
this began but right now my priority is
how we manage the situation we can ask
those questions and try to find out how
this happened while this is happening
our focus needs to be on what is
happening and how we help it there will
be met much time in the coming weeks and
months for reflecting on how it happened
and how we can prevent it in the future
but for now my focus is on how we make
sure Canadians get all the help they can
right now thank you
operator next question Thank You Elsie
next question Lieberthal the Canadian
Press lied open yes Thank You Prime
Minister
I just wanted you if we could speak to a
different topic for a second
premier Doug Ford yesterday took aim at
your ear measures about the assault
rifle ban suggesting that the money for
buybacks would be better spent on border
security and cracking down on smuggling
could you respond to his comments Lee we
know that there is more to do on
strengthening gun control in this
country which is why we're going to be
moving forward when Parliament allows it
with stronger measures around borders
stronger measures around safe storage
measures around handguns to permit
municipalities to ban handguns within
their city limits we know there is more
to do but we also know there is no place
in Canada for guns specifically designed
to kill the largest number of people in
the shortest amount of time that is why
we are moving forward with a ban on
assault style military-style assault
weapons and there is much more to be
done to strengthen gun control and
that's why we will be
introducing legislation when a
parliament allows us to do that in order
to strengthen border controls introduce
other measures with respect to handguns
in particular and continue a buyback
program for assault type military
weapons at the same time I can say that
we realize and know that there is no
place for weapons that were in Canada
that were invented to kill as many
people as possible in the shortest span
of time those assault-style weapons have
no place here in Canada and that's why
we have banned them and yes sorry
tomorrow we're going to see a number of
provinces Quebec and Ontario in
particular start reopening their
economies do you have any thoughts on
the measures that have been announced by
some of these provinces especially
Quebec given that we've seen ongoing
increases in the number of Kogan 19
cases we all provinces territories in
the federal government agreed on shared
principles that we believe in in terms
of opening gradually opening carefully
and remaining extremely vigilant as a
different regions take different
measures to restart the economy while
keeping people safe
our focus every step of the way is going
to be to support Canadians across the
country as we move through these these
next steps different regions will have
different measures to bring in at
different times and our job is to make
sure we're supporting them as best we
can as we go through this carefully and
step by step ok leads of a nice avoid
the various provinces will be taking
different kinds of action we all agreed
on basic principles and the conditions
that have to be present for a gradual
reopening of
society and our role as a federal
government is to support the provinces
in the decisions that they make and to
be there to help all Canadians right
across this country as the various
regions begin to reopen based on their
perspective and what they believe to be
appropriate thank you merci person
castao
with respect to the introduction of the
virus in north america there is some
sources that are saying that we were
misled no is it the first of august that
you have mentioned we have always been
very clear with dairy producers right
across this country and as possible but
we did not believe that we could
convince the Americans to wait until
August first the that will happen on
July 1st instead but as I've always said
there will be compensation for dairy
producers it is a very good agreement
for all Canadians but we also understand
that this is an agreement that will have
to result in compensation for dairy
producers starts up again players be
allowed to cross the border even though
they're not Canadian citizens
is something we will have to look at
ecole got even now whoever is coming in
from another country will have to follow
all the quarantine quarantine quarantine
rules yet in our discussions with the
NHL we realized that it is a possibility
but it will depend on many different
factors and I cannot say more at this
point what will happen until those
discussions have been completed the Fox
News reporting that American
intelligence is saying there's now a
growing consensus amongst major
intelligence partners that Co vid 19 was
actually leaked from the Wuhan
government lab is that not your position
I mean if the American government is
saying there's a consensus is an odd
sort of incumbent on you to clarify
Canada's position given we all remember
over the fiight television partnership
we have been cooperating and and and
working with our five eyes partners from
the very beginning on various
intelligence that has come out on this
and other subjects we will continue to
work with intelligence agencies around
the world not just the five eyes but
friends and partners as well and look to
find answers to the many questions
people are people are asking but it is
still too early to draw firm conclusions
and indeed our focus remains on how we
are working to protect Canadians how we
are ensuring that Canadians have our
entire focus right now and our entire
ability to support them through this
time so so when you say it's too early
to draw from conclusions is it fair
infer from that that the candidate has
not come to the conclusion that this was
sorts from a Chinese lab and is there
any sort of investigation being ordered
the either by CSIS or CSC to investigate
those claims
we continue to work very closely with
our partners and allies and indeed
independently on many security issues
that are important for Canadians at this
point we are not drawing any firm
conclusions more about the supply
Council what specifically will it be
focusing on and and how long is its
mandate from the very beginning we've
made it an absolute priority to procure
the necessary personal protective
equipment for our frontline workers in
this country we have managed to work
with the provinces on sourcing necessary
products from around the world so that
we've been able to meet the demand
across the country at the same time we
recognized that it was important to
develop our own domestic capacity for
PPE and that is coming online now at the
same time we recognize that as the
economy starts to open in different
places in different ways it is going to
be important to have even more personal
protective equipment for people working
in the private sector in various
industries and that's why we need to do
everything we can to ensure we're
getting the right procurement that's why
we're moving forward with this supply
Council and minister Anand will be at
the noon press conference to answer more
questions on the council and the
reopening and how PPE into place with
that should Canadians expect to be
required to wear masks more frequently
as this reopens we've already seen on
airplanes that masks are now required
where else will we see that happen I
think what specific rules will be in
place will depend on the jurisdiction
and the region in which people find
themselves we see very different
realities right across the country but
certainly social distancing rules will
continue to apply and using masks in
situations where it's more difficult to
use full social dis ting distancing is
going to be very important as well and
I'm certain we will be seeing more
people using masks okay
leads if you don't regular convert
various rules that will be seen across
the country will be put in place by
local authorities but there's no doubt
that as we move forward and we have to
continue physical distancing in
situations where it may be more
difficult to do that such as on an
airplane well clearly we will be seeing
more and more people wearing masks will
your government be putting forth any
sort of physical update this month in
terms of new government spending related
to Cove 819 and would that include plans
to start reducing the deficit we're
going to continue to stay transparent on
the investments we're making to help
Canadians through this we knew from the
very beginning that one of the best ways
to keep people safe and healthy was to
give them the capacity to socially
distance to stay home to isolate and
that meant sending income supports
through the Canada Emergency Response
benefit through the wage subsidy through
short is through loans for small
businesses through many other measures
support for different groups we know
that the best way to stay healthy is to
support Canadians while we go through
this difficult time we have been open
and transparent about that every step of
the way and we're going to continue to
be open and transparent with Canadians
about the investments we're making to
keep us safe and the investments we'll
be making to get our economy going our
economy was strong before we went into
this and we have tremendous confidence
in Canadians ability to come roaring
back as we reopen in a gradual way and
that's why we are confident about the
future of the Canadian economy and we
will have of course a more updates and
more to say about that as time was gone
and with regards to gun control the
grandfather clause of these measures
seem to allow owners of these guns to
apply to keep them in some sort of
fashion and I'm wondering is it really a
ban if some people can still keep those
guns
we know that banning military-style
assault weapons was an important step in
keeping Canadians safe that is something
that we have done because guns designed
to kill the largest amount of people in
the smallest amount of time have no
place in Canada we've brought in a
two-year and Misty so that people who've
purchased those guns legally will have
time to be able to comply with the
regulations we are going the regulations
we've brought in and the buyback program
and legislation that we're going to move
forward with at the first opportunity
when the house turns its attention to
things other than kovat and that means
that we are going to keep moving forward
on reducing the number of assault
weapons in this country the details on
the buyback program the details on the
rules as to what happens at the end of
the samne ste period will be worked out
in legislation with other parties with
the stakeholders across the country we
were going to take this very very
seriously because we as Canadians know
are deeply committed to keeping people
safe and strengthening gun control in
this country following up on the gun
question the day that you announced the
gun ban during your election campaign
you first toured around the Danforth
where a shooting had happened by a
handgun we know that almost 60% of all
firearm related deaths in Canada who use
a handgun you keep saying that there's
no place for military-style weapons in
Canada but why is there still a place
for handguns in Canada and what evidence
is there that shows that banning the
guns that you chose will actually curve
gun violence here we've seen far too
many mass shootings in which
military-style assault weapons were used
to kill innocent Canadians instead foie
recently in Nova Scotia
back at Ecole Polytechnique 30 years ago
we've seen far too many cases in which
these guns have caused devastation to
families and communities that's why it
was time to ban them this is something
that we were able to do through
regulation so it didn't require
legislation but
new measures that we intend to bring in
on allowing cities the ability to
restrict handgun youths and handgun
ownership is are going to be brought in
as we work on legislation as the house
turns itself to measures other than
covet 19 and we know there is going to
be broad support across political
parties to do just that okay new Zevon
PD Mizzou cold case
we took breed action LT Alexia to limit
access to style weapons because there
have been far too many massacres and too
many innocent victims have lost their
lives because of the use of those
weapons in the last 30 years it was high
time to take action on this giving the
ability with political parties that
agree with us and star anxious to see
more gun control in this country CBC
News I'm hoping you can tell us about
the Spartan cube test set back there
provinces including Quebec that have
purchased these they're set to reopen at
tarting tomorrow what what concerns do
you have or what does this mean moving
forward if there are provinces that were
relying on this to ramp up their testing
to reopen we have said from the very
beginning that in this unprecedented
crisis we needed to move very very
quickly we move quickly on economic
measures what we've also accelerated the
testing the approval the processes by
which we can get a potentially
life-saving measures out there to
Canadians but when we do that quickly
there are going to be new facts to come
in and situations that evolve that will
require shifts in our postures that is
why we're being as nimble as we possibly
can to respond to what's working to what
perhaps isn't working as well as we had
hoped it would and we will always need
to adjust every step of the way as new
information comes in on a daily basis
through this pandemic through this
crisis similarily provinces will have to
adjust to new realities and adjust to
two successes and challenges as as they
come up we know that one of the things
that Canadians expect us to do is react
quickly as new information come in comes
in and new understanding gets gleaned
and that's exactly what we'll do in this
emergency and this crisis to ensure that
we were doing everything we could to
protect Canadians and that's exactly
what we did new ways of saving lives but
when you move quickly that there can be
varying levels of success and some
challenges that arise with certain
processes or products so we continue to
respond their approach or their posture
to adjust things when the need arises do
we test kits now particularly with what
we've just learned about Spartan to
reopen the Quebec economy and
Saskatchewan and other provinces do we
have enough regional and provincial
governments we'll have to make for
themselves
territories and solutions to allow them
to do more testing provide the chemicals
or the equipment they need to ensure
that their level of testing is
appropriate based on what they believe
to be necessary so our role is to
support decisions and it's up to the
provinces to decide whether this new
information means they can go more
closely or maybe they should slow it
down as I say we are there to help them
to support those decisions one of the
things we need to understand is it is to
the provinces to determine what is the
right step for them given the tools they
have given the profile of the disease
that they are facing our job as a
federal government is to be there to
help provide them with the equipment
they need the support they need as they
make the right determination in their
region in their territory in their
province we know that there are very
different situations right across the
country and the federal government needs
to be there to support the provinces in
the different approaches and strategies
that they take don't do you understand
that there are some people who are
worried and those people wonder you know
if there's a second wave in the coming
weeks and British Columbia or elsewhere
can the federal government take control
and say that's enough we have to shut
things down is that something you can do
my responsibility is to work with the
provinces so that they tell us well we
need this level of testing can the
federal government help us to achieve
that level of testing and yes our role
and responsibility will be to support
the provinces to meet those targets we
respond to the requests that come from
them and their reality on the ground our
role is to monitor and coordinate those
efforts across the country and ensure
that the provinces are able to respond
and if a province starts to reopen and
realizes that unfortunately and there is
an explosion in the number of cases it
will be up to the provinces to respond
and I know that in that province
citizens will say at that point that
they want a different approach approach
but we will be there to support those
decisions and make sure they're the
right ones for Canadian things that we
need to know is that as provinces move
forward it is possible that we will see
a rise in cases in different areas and
the provinces will have to respond with
measures either specific to that area or
broader measures and every step of the
way the federal government will be there
to support and and be part of the
solution as as we keep Canadians safe
but I can certainly tell you that after
having spent weeks in isolation many
Canadians will be very very alert to any
signs that we might have to we might be
entering a second wave will be demanding
that their leaders respond to keep them
safe yes they will put the remote missus
comea Backa peso shelter that is prime
minister justin trudeau just outside of
Rideau cottage addressing a number of
questions from reporters I'll start off
with the substance of the announcement
that he made sort of multi-prong first
of all 240 million dollars going towards
online online services for primary
health care as well as mental health
care than 175 million dollars for a
company called absol era and my
understanding is that is a company that
has developed a platform through which
and research basically done around using
antibodies from kovat 19 to actually
treat the disease so that's a part of
this sort of research package that the
federal government has funded and put
forth so far then the Prime Minister
indicated that in about 13 minutes time
we'll hear from procurement minister
Anita Anand around the creation of what
he calls a national supply Council to
deal with the issue of course of
reopening economies and having enough
personal protective equipment masks or
hand sanitizer to be able to
successfully do that and that's where I
want to bring in my colleague David
Cochran who of course was listening in
to the Prime Minister's remarks a lot of
questions for the Prime Minister David
around reopening the economy and
something we were talking about just
prior to his remarks this problem with
this new Spartan test kit the sort of
pause that the approval process has or
the approval of
test has has cause but also he got
questions around what does that mean for
testing capacity in provinces what is
for example in Quebec if they can't do
enough test is it safe for them to
reopen tell us a bit about what he said
yeah it's important to stress i with
this setback for the spartan test cube
which they believe is a solvable problem
is just not solvable right now no
province is seeing their test capacity
go down because of this they just can't
escalate it and expand it at the scale
of which they were hoping and escalated
and expanding and broaden testing is a
key part and the experts tell us on
being able to safely reopen not just the
economy but reopen society and let
people get back to some semblance of
what as normal so without this being
able to go broadly into the Canadian
testing marketplace we are left with
what we have so there is a we're a lot
of questions there about the various
provinces are all taking steps to reopen
things like doubling up your bubble like
they're doing in to Brunswick and
Newfoundland and Labrador in places like
that or the the more aggressive
reopening of economic activity in some
provinces this is going to be a real big
experiment for Canada that's going to
start tomorrow we're not going to find
out tomorrow if it works we'll find out
about ten days to two weeks from
tomorrow when we see if new testing
shows and a growth in cases and a surge
in positive tests in the economies that
are gradually reopening and whether that
means a scaling back of what we're doing
economically or if the test results are
good whether there can be a further
broadening of activity after that but
the Prime Minister was asked point-blank
you know if the provinces screw this up
or a province screws this up can the
federal government step in and stop it I
don't think that's something the Prime
Minister wants to do that is akin to the
questions earlier in this crisis about
using the Emergencies Act which is
something Justin Trudeau on the premiers
have made clear they do not want to see
happen in this country and I can't
imagine a good outcome if Justin Trudeau
were to tell Quebec Premier Lugo that he
was doing it wrong and had to stop what
he's doing in terms of opening up Quebec
society and the Quebec economy that is
gonna be a challenge for the Quebec
government in Quebec society to deal
with the same is going to be in
Saskatchewan and Manitoba the the data
in places like Saskatchewan and in
Quebec where the transmission rate is
still higher than one per
infecting one person r1 is what we call
a one-to-one transmission rate you want
it to get down to our naught or R 0
Quebec and Saskatchewan are still above
the r1 level so that means that the
infection is still on a track to double
over a certain period of days and
Montreal in particular is the epicenter
for this disease in Canada so there are
significant challenges for the province
who were taking provinces that are
taking these steps to re-open where
there is still high rates of growth in
their population less severe and new
flannel Labrador Prince Edward Island
New Brunswick where there are actually
no active cases are no known active
cases right now but this is going to be
a significant societal test and a
political test as various provinces move
ahead with the reopening plans
anticipate David that dr. Tam dr. Teresa
Tam who were scheduled to hear from in
about 10 minutes time will be asked
about this I'll come back to you in a
moment but I do want to bring in dr.
Peter Lin on this subject he's of course
a CDC News medical contributor and
family physician he's joining us from
Toronto hi dr. Lin good to see you so
let me start off on this issue with
Spartan tests these are this Cube tests
that were supposed to work very quickly
lots of them on order I think a million
on order in Ontario a hundred thousand
on order in Alberta how big of a blow is
this to the testing capacity the future
testing capacity of provinces yeah so
the key was this was portable it could
give you an answer within an hour so
therefore places that are remote they
don't have access to testing they don't
have to wait for the swabs to get
traveled around and sent and then come
back three days later you can get the
answer within an hour but if you think
about each machine will process about
one one per hour so 24 per day so it's
not like the thousands and thousands
that we're hearing about that are being
processed at the big lab so does it help
small communities and perhaps certain
emergency situations where you need to
know the answer within an hour yes but
does it help does it sort of cripple our
system no because we still have huge lab
capacity in terms of processing the
normal swabs that we're doing and what
about the speed the sort of issue around
approving these kinds of tests because
we're also going to be in this position
when it comes to antibody tests that's
the test serological tests that are done
to see if you've had the virus that's
currently undergoing an approval process
as well with Health Canada what does it
tell us about the speed at which these
things are being a
proved and should we expect to be
reasonable a few other sort of hiccups
along the way yeah and I think because
of this hiccup this is a very simple
thing the test itself works perfectly
fine so the cube it can measure and can
find the virus that's not a problem the
problem comes from the swab
because this test was originally built
to look for DNA like let's say do you
have the gene for our Alzheimer's
disease that's really what the company
was all about and for that swab you only
need to take a swab on the inside of
your mouth and you just have to get some
cells once you have some cells you can
do the whole process on it so what
happened was that their swab is for your
mouth therefore it cannot fit all the
way up into your nose and you have to
actually go pretty high up in the nose
you've seen those long swabs and so
because of that your swab system is not
able to pick up everything you could
only swab the outside of your nose or
the inside of your mouth which now means
that could there be false negatives in
other words we say you don't have the
virus but that's just because the swab
didn't get up there so the device itself
is fine what they have to do is just
come up with another swab unfortunately
the moment you come up with another swab
you now have to show that that swab can
collect samples and you have to go
through the testing again so we're a
little bit set backwards but definitely
it's very fixable they just have to
change the swab and the reason why the
situation happened is because everybody
was in a rush to get the testing part
right so the box itself is complicated
stuff so they were getting that right
and everybody forgot that we need to get
a good sample so therefore fixing the
sampling is what they need to do and
then just show that it works and then
they'll get approved again just a quick
question finally before I let you go dr.
Lin around reopening economies
especially in Quebec where we're gonna
see in the next week or so kids start
start to head back to school we're still
seeing the numbers there you know in the
triple digits for the number of cases
what is your sense about the readiness
of provinces to reopen yeah I'm hoping
that the government is looking at where
the numbers are going up so let's say
the numbers were going up in long-term
care let's just say so then what we
could do is start opening up other
economies that are not attached to
long-term care or perhaps region so for
example Montreal proper there's a lot of
cases there but outside of Montreal
maybe no cases or very low cases so and
what I'm hoping is that they're opening
up things in regions that don't have
increasing cases I think that's what
they're doing number two is that we have
to
keep monitoring and number three we
can't give advice like you should be at
50% capacity because that's not what's
gonna keep us safe what's going to keep
us safe which we talked about is the
physical distancing so that I cannot
blow the virus towards you either by
breathing or talking to your laughing at
you
so basically we need to keep that and I
think what we should be telling people
is keep that distance so individually we
can do that but we could tell businesses
if you're a restaurant figure out how
everybody could sit six feet apart and
your servers can be you know two or
three feet apart when they're serving
and thought so on and so forth and I
know there's gonna be lineups and things
like that let's be like the grocery
stores where we can have those markings
so I think those kinds of principles
will keep the businesses working well
and it'll keep us safe so I think we
have to just make sure you keep that six
feet in our mind always present okay
appreciate your insights as always dr.
Lynn thanks very much thanks fancy
doctor Peter Lynn coming to us from
Toronto CBC News medical contributor the
prime minister also did as I mentioned
announced two hundred and forty million
dollars directed towards online services
for both primary health care and mental
health care for that I want to bring in
our next guest Dana Lee vaguely she's a
registered psychologist in Halifax hi
there good to see you
I thanks for having me I want to start
off with the idea of online services for
mental healthcare right now so many
people having to stay home how
significant or how important is it that
they be able to access those services
through their computer so I think one of
the good things that came about and I
wish it could have come about in a
different way but one of the good things
that came about is an increased focus
and attention on mental health and on
being delivered about protecting our
mental health so the physical distancing
is absolutely necessary and as we just
heard and it's also really hard on
mental health right these are not the
things that we recommend for good mental
health and so I think it's especially
important to be able to access
professional services so these are
unprecedented times and that might also
mean that we do things we wouldn't
normally do in terms of accessing
professional mental health mental health
translates very well online you can do
therapy quite well and their studies
showing the effectiveness of that
and we also need to make sure that the
rural communities have access to the
Internet because those are exactly the
communities we want to increase
accessibility and often they don't have
stable internet to be able to make use
of these resources that's a really good
point actually it's been the point of
discussion among parliamentarians and
specifically from the opposition parties
to you run your own practice what have
you seen up close about the effects of
this pandemic on Canadians mental health
so really it's the pretty much the only
thing we talk about in all of the
sessions is how to protect our mental
health how to stay stable we're talking
about trying to do again charge our
batteries do things that are deliberate
about protecting our mental health so it
is taking a toll we've seen some studies
showing that it's taking a toll and also
that people are willing to continue
doing it if that means keeping people
safe
so having additional services that you
can access and professional services you
can access to help us cope with that is
really important I just have about a
minute left but my sense prior to this
was that access to those services was
already strained it's already an issue
for a lot of Canadians this is more
money but how big of an issue is that
access so I've seen you know people talk
about that the first way it is koga
deaths the second wave is acute just
like like heart disease or heart attacks
the third is chronic disease management
so people that didn't get services the
fourth one is mental health and it's
gonna be the longest one it's the one
that we're gonna be having to deal with
long past when the actually outbreak is
done because there will be long-term
consequences both for the public as well
as for essential service workers and
frontline providers and so we're gonna
need to be mindful of this for a very
long time to come we sure will be thanks
very much for sharing your expertise
with us today I really appreciate it
Dana Lee Bagley she's a registered
psychologist in Halifax we are standing
by in about a minute's time to take you
back to Parliament Hill for a press
conference from Anita Anand and Navdeep
Bane's to ministers in charge of
procurement there's the room there that
will hear from them we'll also hear from
dr. Teresa Tam the chief public health
officer she surely will be asked about
some of the questions around a pause in
testing capacity or
perhaps limits on testing capacities for
provinces and what that means for their
ability to open things up Minister anon
will be talking about what is being
called a national supply Council we know
there are issues with the supply of
personal protective equipment hand
sanitizer masks that kind of thing or
there have been issues this council is
being developed to address all of that
going forward and try to ramp up that
supply as provincial economies open up
that's it for us here on CBC News we
will continue though of course on CBC
News Network I hope you stay with us and
join us there I'm bashing a fellow's
[Music]
hi there welcome back to our coverage of
the kovat 19 pandemic i'm boshy
Capello's coming to you from Ottawa
thanks for joining us on cbc cbc news
network and of course we're streaming
right around the world on the cbc news
app as well as cbc news dot CA we are
standing by to head to Parliament Hill
for a daily update from federal public
health officials Canada's top doctor
Theresa Tam is set to provide some more
details on her statement released
yesterday that the Kovan 19 curve is
flattening I want to bring back my
colleague David Cochran who was
listening to the prime minister last
hour and is standing by with me to take
in that press conference from the
minister's let me start off on the
procurement issue David because that has
been one that has been you know with us
for the last six weeks certainly I don't
think I've ever thought as much about
personal protective equipment or even
known as much about the supply of it
there have been issues with supply the
federal government has ramped up the
domestic capacity to meet that supply
certainly but the idea of what if this
happens again or what kind of personal
protective equipment is necessary to
reopen our economies even for the
private sector is certainly one the feds
are facing yeah there's a lot of
conversations and questions are gonna
come out of this we'll see what the
details are of the supply Council but
longer-term this has laid very clearly
out before the country to see just how
deficient Canada is in terms of
self-sufficiency on personal protective
equipment now that has changed quite
dramatically with companies like Canada
Goose and Stanfield ramping up to make
gowns Bauer making face shields and and
people like Metacom going to build up a
domestic n95 mask manufacturing line
here in Canada but we rely on foreign
countries to deliver this stuff and when
the world is competing for the same
stuff at the same time to deal with the
same problem you have issues on
cutthroat competition and then also
issues around inferior quality because
some of the things Canada has been able
to secure have been found to be not of
sufficient enough quality to be used in
an acute care medical setting so we're
going to get an update and a path
forward it seems on the steps towards
that domestic self-sufficiency that's
why I'm minister Anand is there she's
the minister of buying and navdy Baynes
he's the minister of build
in terms of how this is going and
they're going to give us a sense of what
is going to happen there but it has
really shown how vulnerable the health
system is and how reliant we are on
countries like China which right now is
firmly under the microscope of
international and global anger and
frustration in a geopolitical sense
because of what it may or may not have
done in the early stages of this
outbreak so it is a challenge going
forward in some of the countries gonna
have to deal with that's actually what I
want to ask you about as we wait for
those ministers and dr. Tam to arrive
because we did see a number of questions
directed to the prime minister today
about a couple of reports coming out of
the United States the first my
understanding is comes from Secretary of
State Mike Pompeo who did an interview
this morning on ABC in which he said I
can tell you that there is significant a
significant rather amount of evidence
that this came from that laboratory in
Wuhan Wuhan is of course the epicenter
of where this contagion this pandemic
first started in China he did not of
course us at this point say what the
evidence was but he added the best
experts so far seemed to think it was
man-made
now that jumps off another report that
talks about China for example limiting
exports as soon as they recognized it
was a contagion in late December early
January and to your point David we are
so reliant at this point as far as the
supply chain goes on being able to get
that personal protective equipment that
those medical supplies from China so
these questions become even more
important for the federal government and
the Prime Minister was asked well have
you seen that evidence and he did not
directly answer that yeah he said he
hasn't drawn not drawing any firm
conclusions on anything about the
origins of the virus the Fox News report
I think there was also a report in The
Daily Telegraph an Australian newspaper
citing a intelligence dossier that had
received pointing to this without
independent confirmation from the
Canadian government without a statement
from the Canadian government I'm not
sure what to say about that a week ago
US intelligence reports were telling us
Kim jong-un was dead and now South Korea
was saying he was fine and now there are
pictures of Kim jong-un walking around
North Korea attending Mayday event so
intelligence is not always right I mean
we have seen the US Secretary of State
in the past go to the United Nations and
say there were weapons of mass
destruction in Iraq
and look what happened there so there
are a lot of questions China is going to
have to answer about what it did and
didn't do in the early stages of this
it's certainly there is a whether it
came from a lab or came from a market
which seems to be the dominant theory to
this point is something the Prime
Minister says will need to be sorted out
and investigated after through the
initial health crisis here in the
country and around the world
but I look at XI I don't think there's
any question in anybody's mind on any
world leaders mind that China was not at
all candid about the early stages of
this and took steps to look after its
own interest in a way that may have
compromised the interests of everybody
else either in their ability to respond
to the spreading of the disease and
ensure that they had the medical
supplies and the capacity they needed to
deal with the virus once it eventually
got to their country the challenge in
all of this is that you still need those
supplies because nobody is through this
yet and a lot of those supplies are made
in China and while the United States may
have the the geopolitical have to to go
toe-to-toe with China in a way middle
power like Canada simply just can't
in terms of risking the anger of the
Chinese regime and losing access to the
mass and the gowns and the gloves and
the sanitizer that it needs that is made
over there and that's what's so
interesting to watch kind of the Prime
Minister but as well as many of his
ministers who continue to get these
kinds of questions as they try to
navigate I guess the response to that
because I remember talking to Minister
Health Minister patty haidu who a few
days ago I think it was maybe the
beginning of this week who wouldn't say
for example that an investigation there
should be an investigation at the end of
all this into China's behavior we hear
the Prime Minister continually say those
are questions that can be asked but
we're going to do that later as the US
and you're right there's obviously just
you know a disparity in our roles in the
world but as the u.s. continues to talk
about this and continues to be more
specific about the intelligence or if
there is evidence the evidence that they
see I imagine those questions will
persist for the federal government and
it's going to get harder to keep saying
let's just wait until this is all over
you you we also have to consider the
American context so in this fashion that
it is in the best interests of the Trump
administration in an election year to be
talking about blame for the cause rather
than
for the response of the Americans
there's a lot of criticism for the US
response and while this happened there
in terms of their preparedness and what
is happening and you can see in the
protests in their state legislatures and
even people go to the homes of state
government officials demanding reopening
there is a political desire to talk
about other things in the United States
right now and China is one of those
things that they want to talk about now
that doesn't take away the fact that
there needs to be an investigation of
some sort to find out these answers if
nothing else then so that people can
prepare better and learn lessons for the
next time some sort of novel virus
appears and threatens the world's health
but you know politics and the pandemic
are mixing in a very significant way
right now and we've always got to kind
of keep that in mind let me swing back
David as we wait for the ministers and
chief Public Health Officer dr. Teresa
Tam to what I think a lot of Kinane ever
mind I think they're on their way out
it's gonna say talk about reopening
their economies because I think a lot of
us are thinking and talking about that I
believe they're stepping up there right
now if I'm not correct okay we're going
to swing there and take a listen in -
dr. Teresa Tam as well as ministers Anan
and banks
okay good afternoon everyone so we're
gonna start by hearing from dr. Tam and
dr. new and then one I'm gonna hear from
the minister and not administer pain
stop by videoconference doctor good
afternoon everyone man Bonjour two
tattoos I'll start with the latest
numbers on Kobe 19 in Canada there are
now 57 thousand 148 confirmed cases
including 3606 deaths today eight labs
across Canada have tested over eight
hundred and ninety-three thousand people
for covert 19 with about 6.5 percent of
these testing positive here is the part
where we usually move on to a brief
update on how we are continuing to slow
down the epidemic and what's needed next
was to get down the curve cautiously
together instead I want to pause here to
reflect on the significance behind our
daily numbers numbers that are
impossible to fully encapsulate each one
of the over 57,000 cases has been an
illness striking fear and concern in a
person and their family friends and
community each death has been an
incalculable tragedy and to this but
each death has most often meant a
goodbye being said with loved ones who
are not able to be physically near or to
give hugs and comfort comforting touches
it is in these unimaginable tragic
conditions that we are most thankful for
everyone on the front line of this
crisis not only do we count on health
workers on the front lines to comfort us
when we are sick and scared but they are
there to to offer comforting words human
connection and healing touches they
reach out when we have to remain apart
during illness prolonged hospital stays
and during heart-wrenching last moments
they keep us informed as our loved ones
are being careful and they share the
sadness of news when illness
outcomes can bring only tears the little
can ease that the pain of loss there is
comfort in knowing health health workers
from those who support and maintain our
hospitals and care homes to those who
deliver direct patient care have stepped
in and step stepped up to allow humanity
to shine from the cleaners who share a
quite word of comfort as they go about
their duties or those who bring by the
day's meals to a whole range of
reassurance we can know our loved ones
are being provided care with human touch
and concerned in our stead as you suffer
the loss of a loved one they weep for
you and with you and all Canadians are
for sympathy as you suffer the greatest
loss of all during this crisis today I
offer these reflections as I offer these
reflections I'm thanking all Canadians
whether they are helping in our
hospitals and long-term care homes
providing essential services or
volunteering in our communities or
continuing to do their very best to stay
home to save lives because every life
matters so - that's our every effort to
prevent the spread of kovat 19 keep it
up Canada we are stronger together
thank you thank you dr. taryn are going
to hear from dr. new Bonjour
come debited sukemasa vapor faculty
points to the normal attack at the KO
bida sniff oh canada on the number
actually mo same concept mil Csonka
conduit care contact me the covetous
knife no try me
sis on sis they say as a joke le bourget
well the back to Opie on effectuated
with some katka vintorez mill Annalise
in over on sis we're near st. Paul some
Dontrell so some have a a positive a
betrayal Marcella mom Oh
uno pass on behalf mrs. o de la manioc
Dom on continua volunteer lepida me it's
worth skilful fair skillful coffee on
some poor applique like up a victory
dance miss Devoto epitope contralateral
met know the rafflesia a less
significant the chef Crockett eg the
chef roulette impulsive
the plane no comprendo Le Poire de la
condesa Katia sank on set Milkha Sukesh
in Melodi casa mil park alengka tude
syntaxin Asafa me sesame is a community
shakti say 80 in tragedy
Emil's include first on card a real is a
stress attack Sun so in the pleasure of
allah source of work piet rockin
a physic more pileup rush solve
reservoir de calais certain policy
situation is dr. howard knew the deputy
public health officer of this country
following remarks from dr. Teresa Tam
the chief public health officer of
Canada her remarks focused on providing
some context to the numbers we've heard
so far we have some issues of technical
issues with our translator so as soon as
dr. new finishes we will bring back that
audio as soon as you have that problem
fixed we'll have the translation for you
as well dr. Tam pointing out that as of
today 893 thousand tests have been
conducted in this country with 6.5
percent of them confirmed positive that
number has ticked up over the past few
weeks the number of positive tests but
that is anticipated as testing capacity
increases she also spoke about the
impact for the first time she says she
paused to talk about the impact behind
the numbers and more specifically the
number of people who have contracted
this virus as well as passed away from
it the number of people then who have to
mourn the loss of their loved ones
without being able for example to hold a
funeral we've seen so many examples of
that over the past six weeks and the
translation is back so we will take a
listen
tuba cleaners Board of Control as they
go about their duties bring by these
meals so a whole range of health care
providers that hold a frightened hand
and give reassurance we can know our
loved ones are being provided care with
human touch
instead humanity seafood chef iacovone
avec vous a loss of a loved one they
weep for you and with you all Canadians
offer sympathy as you so far the
greatest loss of all during this crisis
today as we offer these reflections on
thanking all Canadians what are they are
helping in our hospitals and long-term
care homes providing essential services
or volunteering in our communities all
continue to do their very best to stay
home to save lives because every life
matters
every effort to prevent the spread of
quarantine
capito Canada we are stronger together
thank you thank you now be listening to
Minister and I thank you so much dr.
taryn and dr. noon I echo your
appreciation for a frontline health care
worker
I too will begin by sending my heart
about condolences to them to people who
have lost loved ones as well as to the
families and friends reading the loss of
the six members of the gate you know
forces who lost their lives serving our
country as a fellow Nova Scotian let me
say that we are all breathing with you
today I will provide an update on our
progress this week Connaughton
restaurant as in the rest of the world
most of us supplies continue coming from
abroad we are still facing logistical
challenges because of the heightened
global demand but significant progress
is being made
bring home 20
plane loads of supplies which lights
coming in nearly every day this past
week we have also engaged UPS to provide
additional assistance with moving PPE
out of Shanghai in a competitive
environment our dedicated team on the
ground in China ensures that supplies
are coming into the warehouse and making
their way onto the planes back to Canada
not her objective a domestic our
objective is to put safe reliable and
effective equipment in the hands of our
health professionals and we are taking
all necessary measures for this to
happen we are remaining extremely
vigilant when it comes to the quality of
the products we are distributing we make
adjustments to a supplier base so that
we are only dealing with companies that
can meet the standards that be required
CERCLA plan nacional nationally canadian
companies are continuing to increase
production and deliveries are underway
medical based delivered their first
shipment of ventilators to the federal
government our first shipments of faith
shields began to come in this week with
more than seven hundred and forty
thousand received to date half of which
were produced here in Canada by
companies like Bauer and Toronto stamp
I'm happy to report that we have also
signed new contracts for fifteen point
five million face shields from sterling
industries affiliated with Honda and
from HP Canada as I mentioned last week
we managed to secure a shipment from
China of vital chemical components
required to produce reagent this week
I'm happy to announce that we have
finalized a new agreement
lumen ultra a leading biotech company in
New Brunswick as the corporation now has
the components that it means to produce
enough reagent for five hundred thousand
more tests per week right through
domestic production here at home with in
products and for other things now on the
future in collaboration with Minister we
have signed a new contract with logistic
unico a manufacturing company in st.
John's officially in Quebec they are
providing 11 million medical counts
logistic unicorn it's one of the 30,000
corporations which responded to the call
for action that was published on the buy
and sell sites where we are asking
suppliers to help us fight COBIT
maintain have stepped up to meet the
current challenges that we are facing
together their ingenuity and tenacity
will help us through this crisis last
week we launched a running report of our
procurements on our website which was
updated on Friday
the chief de marzo canoes avanza the
figures are showing that we have made
progress in ordering and obtaining
supplies from the country but we will
not slow down our efforts we will not
give we are not letting up of infections
or a sudden resurgence at any given time
which would renew an immediate need for
further orders of critical supplies that
is why I have formed a kovat 19 Supply
Council which brings together a diverse
group of leaders from the Canadian
Chamber of Commerce to the Red Cross
to provide advice on building innovative
and agile supply chains from start to
finish this council is about bringing
together diverse industries and
experiences in order to best serve
Canadians through the next phases of
this crisis the council complements my
work with procurement ministers from
provinces and territories right across
the country as an example of our
collaboration when we spoke on Friday my
counterpart in Nunavut raised an urgent
shortage of swabs in concert with the
Public Health Agency and the Department
of National Defense we were able to
ensure that a shipment of swabs was sent
on it way to Nineveh within 24 hours
operation has proven to be invaluable
time and time again throughout this
crisis together we remain vigilant in
our efforts to secure the vital supplies
that will keep Canadians safe today
tomorrow and in the months ahead thank
you so much merci beaucoup
thank you mister we're not gonna hear
from the Minister of innovation Science
and Industry after you Prince I thank
you very much Anita and thank you very
much Carla
nearly six weeks ago we call them
Canada's industrial community to help me
a critical need for personal protective
equipment and health supplies we also
reached out the wealth of Canadian
research institutions universities and
scientists to mobilize science in the
fight against Corbin 95th in two things
have stood out from the speed at which
Canadian companies and researchers all
across the country have stepped up and
offered their help and whatever way the
end can assist their fellow Canadians in
the crisis secondly the diverse and
ingenious ways that Canadian innovation
has been deployed to address the
challenges were facing
neither surprising to me and I'm
incredibly proud of the work being done
by a world-class industrial and
scientific community more than 6,000
Canadian corporations have offered us
their expertise and capacities we have
also mobilized researchers who are
researching solutions to this challenge
Coover beats biotech company satellite
was the first company in North America
to receive a sample from a copper
patient in just a few short weeks
they've squeezed 6 million cells and
have identified over 500 human
antibodies they are now working on
identifying which of those 500 anybodies
and not only block the covert 19 virus
but can be made into the drug
to treat the virus Sarah is currently
working with partners to select antibody
that may be therapies that are highly
potent broadly neutralising incapable
large scale manufacturing antibodies
found during the sellers research may
also be used to create tests for Corbin
19 and the company is working with
several global organizations to support
the development of new Diagnostics to
monitor the disease human clinical
trials in in the summer over the long
run the company will create the first
facility in Canada capable of producing
necessary amounts of antibodies for our
country is prepared to respond to future
pandemics let me turn now to some
updates on test kits and face shields we
know that we will need a large number a
reliable and accessible test if we are
to be open the economy safely and
responsibly that's why you just sign
letters of intent with me comments as
mentioned by minister anand lumen ultra
austin biologics and diagnostics biochem
canada these companies were selected
through an accelerated process that saw
over 100 submissions similar to what we
did with ventilators a National Research
Council of Canada any panel external
experts identifies the most promising
short-term Canadian manufacturing
options for testing engine engine
supercluster is also supporting other
aspects of PPE manufacturing eight
projects have already been approved it
has contracted we new project focus on
medical facials these projects are
bringing together manufacturing and 3d
printing companies
the resulting partnerships will result
in hundreds of thousands of patients
being produced daily by June 1st to
conclude our likes to states that the
skill AI supercluster is also mobilizing
its members and has approved eight new
projects artificial intelligence to
fight against kovat 19 we continue in
our mission of supporting our health
care workers and ensuring the safety of
Canadians as we navigate this pandemic
together we will win this fight
thank you very much merci beaucoup Thank
You Minister Baines we are now ready to
take questions as usual we'll start on
the phone with three questions one
question won't follow up and then we'll
room about ah Thank You merci
please press star-1 at this time if you
have a question please repeat it well or
make multiple than just so it'll be a
trip that I Preston attend as well we
I'm sorry I think maybe you have hardly
hear clearly the ministers so I'm hoping
that dr. Tam you can answer my question
what happened exactly was this part and
cube test how come it was three weeks
ago
good to go and and now it's not yes so I
think it was April the 11th when Health
Canada authorized Spartan the test kit
under an interim order pathways so this
is part of the acceleration of access to
innovative testing but built into that
process is actually clinical validation
of the device and and its system so it
was actually the National microbiology
laboratory from the public health agency
collaborated with clinical sites in
three provinces to actually use this
device and system to take samples from
actual patients and so while the Spartan
system or the device performed very well
in a laboratory setting and londa saying
that specifications that the
manufacturer had provided it was in the
real life setting in the clinical
setting where it didn't perform well and
right now it appears that it may be
related to the proprietary swab that
goes with the system so I think what
Health Canada is doing is to amend the
authorized intended use to for research
use only so that more clinical
validation can be done once the
manufacturer adjusts its system so I
actually think this is a really it
really highlights the importance of the
kind of quality assurance that we're
putting to our new tests and that really
there's been no use of this test kit in
a way that would have impacted patient
diagnosis outcomes because you're doing
this in the context of an actual
clinical trial evaluation okay I
understand when you talk about the
purpose of the swab we're talking about
the thing that actually gets the sample
I guess and if not please correct me and
my question is on Friday you were saying
that we were testing about 23,000 a day
you were hoping for almost three times
as much 60,000 how does this the Spartan
tube setback impact this objective
actually doesn't impact it because the
provincial territorial target
collectively of the 60,000 is just on
the existing PCR tests within the Public
Health laboratories and
we would add on top of that any
point-of-care testing that comes on
board some of which are already in use
such as the gene expert that is for
example also being used in Nunavut for
example so some of the points of care is
in addition to that initial provincial
territorial capacity target of 60,000
and I do know that you know people the
the provinces are ramping up the testing
and we'll see what happens in the next
seven days as they ramp up some more I
know that in the last 24 hours we
actually did over 31,000 tests see the
time appellate are pushing kissed on
Shilpa the next question is from leader
Jairam from The Canadian Press please go
ahead yes thank you this questions for
dr. Tam a number of provinces are going
to take the next steps tomorrow Ontario
and Quebec in particular towards
reopening what will you and other public
health officials be watching for
especially in Quebec where you saw
another thousand cases recorded
yesterday and does does the Spartan
recall or the issues that have been
highlighted there have any impact on
what your what you're seeing in terms of
what we might expect in terms of long
term or reopening up well I think both
of these provinces have plans in place
to escalate the testing and as I've just
said that the target of 60,000 doesn't
actually include any additional of those
new tests like point-of-care so but you
know this is because we're looking at so
many different streams of new tests
coming on board they will have to
readjust at the timelines of perhaps
when they would have expected the
Spartan system to be on board but this
is the most prudent course of action
because what you don't want is a actual
system out there that isn't picking up
the cases as it should so I think that's
actually a really good validation
approach in terms of of course as you've
heard from chief medic offices of
Beaufort those problems
across the country there is no exact
right pathway down the slope and into
the new realities of living with covin
19 we all know that it has to be
cautious and we have to actually look at
what happens some of the criteria that
we're looking for is actually published
but it involves of course looking at
cases coming down so if you see cases
coming back up again you're gonna have
to re-evaluate what's going on and of
course one of the critical aspects is
your is your healthcare capacity and
your ICU capacity so making sure that
there'll be tracking of those parameters
as they go about these are the baby
steps and cautious path towards this
this new new reality of living with coab
is 19 so I think everyone will be
watching very carefully as to what
happens to the activities and I know
that provinces are also trying to
separate out the actual clusters within
certain settings like long term care
from what might be actually community
transmission so they'll be trying to
look at the epidemiology from that
perspective as well follow-up the number
a number of new cases that will report
it and come back yesterday do you think
it's appropriate for this province to to
move ahead on its plans to reopen I
think this is up to of course the
province of Quebec to look at that
particular situation and I also matter
of course Quebec is a very big province
and it may not be the same even than
within the actual province itself so so
I'm absolutely certain dr. Luther and
the Quebec public health system will be
monitoring this or over different
aspects of the province and they may not
do things at the same time for different
areas of Quebec as well but the details
are within the purview of the province
thank you doctor operator next question
please
Thank You Philippe myself was here I do
Canada
I'm a stylist you knew I'm gonna
actually do we have enough screening
tests because you're talking about
60,000 target we are reaching 30,000
some provinces will be reopening soon
and that is before we are able to carry
out enough screenings Amy actually I
kissed your sister dr. new this is dr.
new here thank you for your question it
is always a concern for all provinces
and territories to have the capacity to
scream within the administration the
capacity has increased significantly the
provinces and territories are also
continuing to increase capacities
there's good capacity throughout the
country screaming based on the molecular
test now we are also introducing like
that's something we need to manage but
ultimately we have the capacity to the
provinces to make adjustments they may
also need to loosen up their public
service measures should I repeat in
English is that okay okay we're saying
is yes at the present time certainly in
the provinces territories their their
capacity for lab testing which is Kia
will continue they've obviously taken
steps to increase their lab capacity and
that continues to this day and certainly
within each province of territory
they're making sure that as they may be
certain begins to relax or in public
health measures that that capacity to
rapidly detect cases is there right now
the capacity is based on what we call
the molecular tests and that's something
that will continue to be in a sense the
gold standard for now but certainly a
province of territories as well as the
federal government we're looking at
other types of technology to bring more
tools available for testing and
individuals and we've just talked about
what we call point-of-care testing
including the spartan test which
obviously at this point needs a some
adjustments but certainly we hope to in
the coming days and weeks make the
necessary adjustments at least a company
that will allow it to be used in the
clinical sense
thank you dr. Mishra for Z understand
for testing and we are just not doing
enough testing we are doing 30,000 now
the target is 60,000 maybe another one
who is good in math or maybe another one
understanding that enough testing is
being done because it all depends on the
demand we need to it's not just testing
we know it's very important we scream
someone who is not ill false negative so
it all depends on demand what is
happening now within the population we
the spread of the virus well we have the
capacity in the country to be privacy
territoire CK shows that not all
provinces and territories so it's
something we need to follow up closely
if we start relaxing some public health
measures we need a surveillance system
and a screening system detect
the virus has shown that they decay
declare a if there is a surge in
declared cases that is really the issue
the issue is not the exact figures or
the available tests thank you doctor and
I'll turn to the room
starting with Mary Carol from
development administer Anand it's Marika
Walsh with the globe we're having
trouble hearing you so I'm hoping this
will work I'm just wondering if you can
tell me exactly what what gap is
currently in the supply of PPE that that
you're hoping this council will fill
what specifically is missing from the
complement that this will now help do
well thank you I hope you hear me now
any better the supply council isn't
meant to fill a particular gap in the
supply chain per se but the goal in
establishing the supply council is to
provide another lens into the
point-to-point procurements that we are
doing from start to finish from
manufacture to arrival or production in
Canada what is it that we can be doing
differently to ensure that we have
proper and effective and efficient
procurement with within our government
and across the country and so the idea
is that it is adding to our existing
processes by drawing on the expertise of
multiple individuals from a diverse set
of sectors so that we can ensure that we
are thinking about all the necessary
things that we need to be thinking about
in procurement so for example in terms
of distribution we have much to learn in
terms of diverse communities should we
be adopting alternative and additional
processes to ensure that we can reach
vulnerable populations
and part of our conversation with the
supply council will revolve around
Canada's incredible diversity and how we
can do better in terms of our
procurement to ensure that everyone has
the supplies that are necessary across
this country and what is your what does
what are the government's forecasts of
how much PPE we will need either per
number in population or per week or a
mix of those when we reopen how much
more PPE will we need once we are all
trying to get back to work it's
definitely true that across the country
wherever you are people are talking
about personal protective equipment and
the incredible needs that we are
foreseeing but let me be clear our first
priority as the federal government at
the current time is to procure PPE for
our frontline healthcare workers that is
what we are doing every single day and
we are procuring from international
sources and as Minister Baines and I
have been working on very hard domestic
retooling is also a part of that
equation diversifying supply chains in
terms of what is going to be needed for
PPE
this is an ongoing conversation that I
have been having with my provincial and
territorial counterparts and that we are
going to be continuing to have as we go
through the next phases of the pandemic
but I will say that from a procurement
perspective we are planning for the
short and the long term we are planning
for this phase as well as potential
additional searches in the pandemic so
that we can be prepared for all
eventualities
this is procurement like it's never been
done before for that very reason we need
to be planning for the short and the
long term and all eventualities Thank
You Minister Ashley I'm hoping you can
tell me what the impact of the Spartan
testing setback is on provinces and
territories that have ordered this time
this kind of test hits you
they talked about trying to ramp up
quickly they're testing well what impact
does this have so I think this is in
addition to the targeted around 60,000
so we still even within that scope got
another half way to go into if you think
about you know we're doing thirty
thousand a day say since yesterday their
self room for them to continue to ramp
up the testing approaches and so then
the point-of-care actually the key
adjustments and plans will be for I
think the rural and remote communities
so the concept of using these more mere
patient tests is so that we can render
these communities more independent of
transportation so any kind of delays
might in fact impact on the fact that we
need to continue to transport specimens
for example that would would have been
dealt with earlier but we are looking at
other supplies at the point-of-care so
this isn't the only one so I think is
that again a dynamic process there are
you know suppliers a bit more
established if you like but when we're
looking innovation space we know that
the pathway of innovation will have some
bumps and I think this is one of those
bumps but it only form one part of the
strategy so I think we will continue to
look for other solutions to fill in
those gaps but I think from my
perspective the impact is more on the
maybe timeliness of the return on lab
testing for the remote okay and I'm also
going to get a sense of you know how
many provinces and territories ordered
these Spartan kits and you know how many
are we talking about thousands of
millions of kits being held back because
of this setback we might have to get
back to you on the numbers because I
don't actually have them I just know
that it was three provinces that helped
with the clinical trial which we were
involved in and I think there were 5500
test kits as a sort of part of that
distribution beyond that
I don't know that that was very there
wouldn't be any distribution but I don't
know how much older it would have been I
could add something there that's great
thank you it would be helpful I think it
is important not to refer to what is
happening with the Spartan test kits as
a recall this is part of the process of
Spartan ramping up to have tests to be
utilized and we are not expecting that
they would be ready at this moment in
any case so in my view the issues that
you're highlighting aren't a recall
aren't defective product at all the
public health lab has said that it will
they will be used in research settings
and Spartan will continue to produce and
review and revise the technology that it
is producing for the rapid test kits and
then as the testing warrants they will
be able able to be used across the
country but again this is part of the
process of producing new technology of
producing something that is going to be
very important but is just getting
retooled and ramped up at the current
time Thank You Minister Rachael Rachael
Haines from CTV my first question goes
to dr. Tam the Prime Minister today when
asked about economies reopening talked
about how there's different realities
and each province but we do know that
the virus doesn't know any borders as
we've been told many times and that
would apply here in Canada as well so as
the various province reopen at different
times are you going to recommend that
enter provincial travel remain
completely or become completely shut
down to make sure that different pockets
don't pop up in different areas I think
we have to continue to share information
about what's going on in each
jurisdiction and the inter provincial
approach is done by individual provinces
but we know there has to be coordination
amongst them
so absolutely I think every province we
were watching you know all the other
provinces in terms of where their stance
is four provinces that have very minimal
healthcare capacity they're going to be
very careful some of the territories are
still going to be of course looking at
the 14-day isolation period for anyone
coming inside the territory and I think
some of that will necessarily continue
until we've seen what actually happens
as people gingerly cautiously go through
the next stage so absolutely I think
people were watching the other
activities but the issue of what public
health systems might do within the
province is up within their jurisdiction
of course from a federal perspective is
really about maintaining essential
services through inter provincial
transport in order to maintain the
essential supplies that still has to
occur so that will again continue as
well I'll just add to that is that
certainly the provincial authorities and
territorial authorities I have the best
sort of a pulse of what's actually
happening in their own jurisdictions
they have the data do you know what's
happening on the ground so the issue of
travel etc it's not just between
provinces but even within provinces as
we know even in the province of Quebec
you know the hot spot I want is Montreal
and then other parts of the province
that situation might be different at one
point they even had Sur restricts in
terms of travel within the province so I
think the principle that they're always
looking at including us at the federal
level is about maintaining physical
distancing and whatever measures can be
brought to bear to try and reinforce
that to the point that it's appropriate
and necessary within the provincial
context that's what they'll continue to
do and as a follow-up as we're talking
about businesses reopening and knowing
that there needs to be an adequate
amount of PPE and masks and other
equipment to make sure that we can stop
the spread for as part of today's
announcement we'll equipment be going
directly to businesses or directly to
health care workers where we know that
there are still issues in those types of
institutions will they
be some kind of allocation or breakdown
of who is getting this PPE
I think the health care system remains a
priority and so that there is an
existing mechanism with departments and
territories to look at we needs an
allocation and that will continue to be
very dynamic and the framework has been
worked out I think one of the most
critical aspects of the next stage is to
ask the non urgent health services come
back is for people to actually look at
what those requirements are and I think
also that is done through the provincial
system and also of course making sure
long term care because some of those are
private entities some of them are may be
publicly funded and but that system
needs to be able to actually provide the
necessary PPE so those coordination
discussions are definitely happening at
the ministerial level as well as the
deputy ministers level to make sure that
health systems can readjust going
forwards and I think in terms of
essential services
you know this ongoing discussions but
the key is that any business trying to
open must align with public health
instructions are and you have to sort of
look at the plans for how they reopen
and have them looked at by the actual
public health authorities and that's the
most important thing because if you've
got the sort of specs if you like of the
two meters or physical barriers or
engineering criteria the businesses know
that their own business is how that
works the most so a lot of them are
thinking through exactly how that's
going to work in a workplace or in order
for them to look forward to planning to
reopen so there's a lot of work I know
that in that space and there's a lot of
guidance being developed for the
different sectors within the
jurisdictions as well
so that's really quite active right now
and we might get a little bit more of an
idea of well under which circumstances
are people not able to maintain the two
meter distance and then that will give
us a better idea of what that supply
requirement might look like thank you
doctor I think we have time for one more
question on the phone operator thank you
the next question is from Savannah odd
from Brunswick news please go ahead hi
there my question is our Minister Baines
today we've seen an investment in
virtual mental health care and primary
care I'm wondering what's being done to
improve reliable Internet access for
rural Canadians so that they aren't left
out of this investment thank you very
much for that question I'm glad you
raised this issue high-speed Internet
connectivity is no longer absolutely
essential in our government recognized
that we were dealing with this digital
divide we made significant investments
that connect to innovate program which
helped 900 communities receive
high-speed Internet connectivity we also
unveiled in our last budget a universal
broadband initiative we're at 1.7 and
billion dollars and my colleague
Minister Rehman said is responsible for
connectivity in that program and she'll
be working very aggressively to move
that agenda forward because we realized
before the more poorly in this current
context the importance of Internet
connectivity or family for work for
people to get an essential information
and this continues to remain a priority
for our government yes so information on
as we see some provinces move faster
towards recovery or I guess in later
stages where they're starting to reopen
I guess before some others will PPE
distribution be affected by that so so
if a provinces I guess further along
into a recovery phase does that factor
into how PPE is distributed I know it
currently is per capita with some wiggle
room based on emergency but could you
just
operate on whether that's part of it
though is doing is based on requests
that have come from the provinces and
territories for purchases that they
require for frontline health care
workers and so as I said that is the
priority at the current time in terms of
PPE that would be generally available
when we move through additional phases
of this crisis again that is an ongoing
discussion and I've had very positive
discussions with the provinces and
territories around the procurement table
that I have struck with the various
ministers from those provinces but I
will say that there is much work to be
done on essential services and and PPE
for essential services and it's
important to remember that the federal
government is not the only purchaser of
PPE in the country hospitals are
procuring PPE individual businesses are
procuring PPE and health care centers
themselves are procuring PPE so this is
an ongoing conversation but it's
important to remember that there are a
number of purchases purchasers in the
country and the most important point to
remember is that the global environment
is incredibly strained the demand is
high and so the federal government is
taking a very collaborative and
cooperative approach with the provinces
and territories in trying to determine
the best way forward on these important
questions Thank You ministers who seem a
fan of appeals to price apology you'll
see this is the end of today's press
conference thank you
those are federal ministers navdy Bane's
as well as Anita Anand alongside chief
Public Health Officer dr. Teresa Tam and
her deputy dr. Howard knew talking a lot
about testing capacity in this country
specifically dr. Tam says that while we
sit at 23,000 tests a day right now
they're hoping to ramp that up to 60,000
I want to bring in my colleague David
Cocker and we just have about a minute
and a half David to debrief on
was said but let me get you on Spartan
testing because that's what we've been
talking about it all day they did
specifically address what kind of impact
the impediment right now will have going
forward
yeah the Spartan test Cube is seen as a
bit of a game changer by health
officials when it was first announced
last month because it could give you a
result within an hour you could do it
portably on-site worked great in a lab
didn't work great in a clinical setting
the kit itself tests properly the
problem is the swabs don't quite collect
the samples to the standard that they
want for this to be a reliable part of
Canada's testing regime so it's been
sent back for some tweaks and working at
Spartan bioscience and then go through
the approval process again there's a
high degree of confidence that this is a
solvable problem and this will come back
out so the downside of this is that it
limits their ability to broaden testing
in rural and remote places or to do
instant testing at places like
assessment centers but the lab capacity
of the country unaffected by this this
is not a drop in testing capacity it's
just a slowdown in the ability to
accelerate it and expand it I got to cut
you off because we're done thanks David
appreciate all your insights this
afternoon the CBC's David Cochrane that
does it for our coverage here I'm Vashi
Capello's I'm going to turn things over
to Michael sir a Pio who will continue
our coverage on CBC News Network have a
great day
[Music]
we're being as nimble as we possibly can
to respond to what's working to what
perhaps isn't working
a Canadian developer recalls its new
rapid